article:
date: 2017-09-24
title: Opportunities to work on the CHEESE project this winter

We are currently looking for enthusiastic people to help with the upcoming
survey season, in paid and voluntary positions. See below for details.  

## Energy Tracer training

We are running a free training course for [CHEESE Energy
Tracers](/energy-tracer-training) on the weekend of 7th and 8th October, 2017.
We expect a commitment to help with/carry out at least one survey a week (on
average) during the 19-week season, from November until the end of March 2018,
with a break over Christmas, from 10th to 31st December. Surveys take
approximately two hours and are typically scheduled on weekends, and sometime
evenings to fit in with surveyor and householder work commitments. Trained
surveyors receive a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) qualification and
are paid Â£40 per survey.

## Internship

We are offering a paid internship role, where you will have the opportunity to
helping with [different aspects of the project](/volunteering), such as
development of the website and literature, data analysis, conducting follow ups
with previous customers and assistance with our surveys. This is a part-time
position, with up to 3 days per week between in late October to the end of
March. 

## Assistance with surveys

We are looking for volunteers from November who would assist with our home
energy surveys. In this role, you will provide support to an Energy Tracer
surveyor with the handling and setting up of equipment, and engagement with
householders. This is a great opportunity to gain experience of our work and
surveying approach.

## Interested?

If any of these roles in the CHEESE project interest you, or you would like
some more information, then please [send us an
email](mailto:info@cheeseproject.co.uk) to introduce yourself.
