article:
date: 2017-04-25
title: Phase two complete

We have come to the end of our winter 2016/17 surveying season, and completion
of phase two of the CHEESE project. Despite some difficulties with funding
early on in the season, we are pleased to be able to report some impressive
achievements. The [pilot last year](/overview#pilot) was led by thermal imaging
expert Brian Harper, who conducted the surveys with trainee CHEESE surveyors
and provided his own equipment and energy-saving boxes from his project in
Malvern. [This year](/overview#phase-two) however, we have recruited and
trained 13 of our own Energy Tracer surveyors, who have operated in pairs
throughout this season to deliver surveys across Bristol, using a refined
technique with our own low-cost equipment.

This winter 2016/17 surveying season, we completed 56 internal surveys,
concentrated in our target wards of Avonmouth & Lawrence Weston, Bishopston,
Cotham, Easton, Filwood and Redland, but extending also to other wards
including Westbury-on-Trym and Stockwood. Feedback testimonials from households
have been very rewarding, including the following quote from one householder:
*"I just wanted to say how BRILLIANT the Cheese Survey experience was!...I have
already started sealing gaps and stuffing holes under skirting boards - I swear
its warmer already!"*

This significant success has been underpinned by many people, many of them
volunteers, all of whom are owed a big thanks, including: the project director
Mike Andrews, our coordinator Nick Clack, the Energy Tracers, a huge amount of
work by Jeremy Birch on the development of and technical support for our CHEESE
thermal imaging kits and the software they use, the sourcing and development of
our 40 [CHEESE energy-saving boxes](/cheese-boxes), the development of the
website and sophisticated survey database to enable later analysis by Jamie
Hanlon, and our other CHEESE committee members, Sue Nicholls and Dave Tudgey.

We are looking towards the expansion of the project next winter and are already
seeking more homes to survey! We will be providing updates on the project via
this website and on Twitter, but in the meantime of you want to get in touch
with us, you can Tweet us
[@CHEESEBristol](http://www.twitter.com/CHEESEBristol/), or email us at
[info@cheeseproject.co.uk](mailto:info@cheeseproject.co.uk).
