article:
date: 2018-02-18
title: The CHEESE response to goverment consultation on 'building a market for energy efficiency'

The government [department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy][beis]
(BEIS) [issued a public consultation][beis-consultation] in October 2017,
appealing for views on to build a market for energy efficiency. Susan Nicholls
and Michael Alford Andrews of the CHEESE project compiled evidence and
submitted a response, which we have published below.

For reference, the consultation document can be [accessed here (PDF)][beis-document].

[beis]: https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/department-for-business-energy-and-industrial-strategy
[beis-consultation]: https://beisgovuk.citizenspace.com/home-local-energy/building-a-market-for-energy-efficiency/
[beis-document]: https://beisgovuk.citizenspace.com/home-local-energy/building-a-market-for-energy-efficiency/supporting_documents/Call%20for%20Evidence%20%20Building%20a%20Market%20for%20Energy%20Efficiency%20Final.pdf

## Contents

- [Background: The value of thermal imaging as a tool to incentivise energy efficiency](#background)
- [Q1. What information do you have on current rates of delivery of measures outside of Government programmes, including through DIY etc.?](#q1)
- [Q2. What information do you have on the remaining potential for energy efficiency improvements and what savings could be expected from these measures?](#q2)
- [Q3. Do you agree with our assessment of the current market for energy efficiency amongst owner occupiers, including the trigger points and supply chain relationships?](#q3)
- [Q4. Do you agree that it makes sense to prioritise those groups most likely to be open to investing in energy efficiency? And do you agree with our assessment of who those groups are most likely to be?](#q4)
- [Q5. Do you agree with our assessment of the current barriers to market growth?](#q5)
- [Q6. Are there other barriers that you think we should be addressing?](#q6)
- [Q7. Do you think there are any other important lessons to learn from past attempts to stimulate the market?](#q7)
- [Q38. Are there other ways that Government could help improve access to data energy efficiency and performance of homes for research purposes?](#q38)

<a name="background"></a>
## Background: The value of thermal imaging as a tool to incentivise energy efficiency

There is very little focus on TI in the consultation document, perhaps because
the Government wishes to concentrates on automated data collection (para.119),
whereas TI requires the expense of a technician. Nevertheless, a C.H.E.E.S.E
survey is a powerful tool to assess heat loss, engage householders and assist
retrofitting. Many faults, such as lack of or incomplete wall insulation, are
only detectable by internal thermal imaging. TI can help to achieve Government
objectives in three very useful ways:

 1. As an incentive to take remedial action.
 2. As a tool to identify building faults (see answer to qu. 6)
 3. As a building skills training tool (see answer to qu. 6).

An [academic study at Plymouth University][plymouth-study] found that people
were 4.8 times more likely to retrofit their home if they had seen thermal
images of its heat loss.

In order to achieve the year-on-year carbon reduction of [15% required to give
us even a 50% chance of avoiding a climate temperature rise of over
2C][anderson-2C], it is essential to deliver measures that:

 - are precisely focussed on real problems,
 - deliver a high impact,
 - first target low cost remedies having a short payback period.

Low-cost thermal imaging delivered through trusted partners in the community
can make an important contribution to delivering these reductions by revealing
draughts and building faults. Furthermore, these faults can often be remedied
though simple DIY actions, as well as stimulate more complex and costly energy
saving measures. The approach could also be an important driver of employment
in the building and retrofit industries.

[plymouth-study]: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364032114006406
[anderson-2C]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZF1zNpzf8RM

## Answers to consultation questions

<a name="q1"></a>
### Qu. 1. What information do you have on current rates of delivery of measures outside of Government programmes, including through DIY etc.?

In answer to your request for installation rates of remedial measures (para.
20), The CHEESE Project’s analysis of 49/56 homes surveyed by TI in winter
2016-2017 showed that 1 to 3 months after survey:

- 84% had taken action, mostly low cost (<£250 and mostly by DIY, e.g.
  installing LED bulbs and filling cracks/draught-proofing, which can have 1-year
  pay-back periods).

- 10% were implementing or had implemented high cost measures such as floor
  insulation, new door, new double glazed window, secondary glazing.

- 92% were planning low cost measures.

- 35% were planning high cost measures, including installing one or more double
  glazed windows, floor insulation or solid wall insulation (SWI).

We will shortly be following up these households at 1 year to determine whether
planned measures have been implemented.

Analysis of a smaller sample of 22 homes 1 year after a survey in 2015-2016 showed that:

- 55% had implemented more costly measures, including SWI (n=3), new door and/or window(s)
  (n=6), secondary glazing (n=2), floor insulation (n=1), roof insulation (n=3).

- In one home where internal SWI had been installed before survey, the survey
  revealed a draught flowing down an air pocket between the wall and insulation,
  which had to be rectified. This fault would not have occurred had the correct
  procedure been followed at installation.

The householder also reset an existing heat recovery system for better
efficiency. Neither of these faults would have been detected without a TI
survey.

Other groups using TI to improve energy efficiency include the University of
Plymouth and Brian Harper of Transition Malvern Hills, who should have more
data.

<a name="q2"></a>
### Qu.2. What information do you have on the remaining potential for energy efficiency improvements and what savings could be expected from these measures?

**Potential for energy efficiency improvements in Bristol**

Bristol has a high proportion of properties that are 100 years old or more.
There are still many with sash windows that are not double glazed and are
draughty, particularly in rented accommodation. Most properties we have
surveyed have some loft insulation, but this is sometimes incomplete or not up
to current standards. Draughts are a major problem in almost all older homes
that have not been retrofitted (these can be exacerbated by removing carpets).
Many period homes, especially in north and west wards of Bristol, have listed
or conservation status with brick or stone frontage and are therefore difficult
to insulate on the outside. They also have decorative features inside which
double the cost of internal 2 SWI. However, there is considerable potential for
this in south and east wards of Bristol, especially in rendered Georgian and
Victorian terraces. We agree strongly that SWI, indeed whole house retrofit
(para. 20), needs to be done wherever possible to achieve UK carbon budgets.
Energy savings from this would be considerable, but as the Government
recognises, would require incentives because of cost and long pay-back periods.

Our experiences in Bristol have national applicability and we are developing
The C.H.E.E.S.E Project as a replicable model that can be deployed across the
UK.

**Savings to be expected**

The C.H.E.E.S.E Project is collecting energy consumption figures before and
after retrofit, but we have not yet been operating for long enough to assess
long-term energy savings from our surveys. We expect to have preliminary
figures by June 2018.

<a name="q3"></a>
### Qu.3. Do you agree with our assessment of the current market for energy efficiency amongst owner occupiers, including the trigger points and supply chain relationships?

We agree with the trigger points. Householders regularly tell us that they will
take more energy efficiency measures in future when they carry out other
planned improvement work. Make their energy-loss visible is a key motivating
factor. It is important to note that our clients begin taking action with the
low-cost solutions, but this incentivises them to make longer-term and more
costly improvements, such as double-glazing or SWI, where the payback is
longer.

<a name="q4"></a>
### Qu 4. Do you agree that it makes sense to prioritise those groups most likely to be open to investing in energy efficiency? And do you agree with our assessment of who those groups are most likely to be?

**Groups most likely to be open to investing in energy efficiency**

It is important to distinguish between energy-loss reduction for social and for
climate change purposes. With an estimated two of five households in or close
to fuel poverty, having to choose between heating or eating, energy efficiency
investment will bring more comfort and better health to those on low incomes.
This may result in more rooms being used in the home and the direct carbon
savings is likely to be small, if any, because expenditure on fuel bills may
not reduce much. However, a secondary gain will occur because illness carries
its own carbon footprint in NHS treatment.

Prof. Kevin Anderson [points out that it is the most affluent 1-5% inhabitants
of the planet that consume 50% of the energy][anderson-50pc]. This would
include most or all UK owner-occupiers. Larger houses leak more energy, so
these are the people that need to be targeted to achieve the greatest energy
savings. We agree that the promise of lower fuel bills is not an adequate
incentive to undertake costly remedial retrofitting. Strong incentives or very
strong ‘nudging’ are required, as many occupants are not yet engaged with the
climate change issue and can afford (or are even ignorant of the size of) their
energy bills.

The comfort and health benefits of a warmer home also need to be emphasised.

[anderson-50pc]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZF1zNpzf8RM

<a name="q5"></a>
### Qu.5. Do you agree with our assessment of the current barriers to market growth?

Yes, as far as they go, but there are significant barriers that have not been
adequately addressed (see answer to qu. 6).

<a name="q6"></a>
### Qu.6. Are there other barriers that you think we should be addressing?

Yes. we believe there are three specific barriers that should be addressed:

**1. Lack of trust**

The Government sees lack of trust in quality as a market barrier, but,
paradoxically, gives little consideration to ways of promoting that trust. Lack
of trust in our view is engendered by:

- The complexity of the market and the under-performance of many installers,
who do not always offer value for money.
- Widespread suspicion of the ‘big 6’ energy companies.
- Top-down funding models

Our experience of the recent disastrous Warm Up Bristol project (see below) and
of our own surveys leads us to believe that such models, based on energy bills,
will not succeed. People are savvy enough to reject the extremely high interest
rates charged by e.g. the former Green Deal finance company. Rather, new
initiatives should be bottom-up and led by community groups where possible, who
are trusted. There is an opportunity for them to be assisted by lenders.

**2. Funding wrongly directed to stimulate the market**

We can give two examples of this in Bristol:

- Householders respond well to C.H.E.E.S.E surveys because we are seen as
acting on behalf of the community, give objective advice and do not have a
sales pitch. We also operate at low cost. We use income from paid surveys to
subsidise free surveys, but rely on grant funding for core costs. This funding
is not at present adequate because funders favour helping people in fuel
poverty, not addressing owner-occupiers where the largest carbon savings can be
made.

- Unfortunately, another popular and successful Bristol-based community
retrofit organisation, [Bristol Green Doors][green-doors], was forced to ‘go
into hibernation’ in November 2016 through lack of funding for precisely this
reason. From 2010-2016 it operated an extremely successful open homes day in
September each year, where [peer-to-peer learning between the general public
and 100 households with experience of retrofit could take place][p2p-retrofit].
Details, including installers used, are recorded on the “Route to Retrofit”
section of their website. They were unable to obtain funding because their work
focussed on owner-occupiers. **Yet these ‘early adopter’ owner occupiers are
precisely the people that the Government should be encouraging – as exemplars
to their neighbours who can afford to make changes.**

[green-doors]: www.bristolgreendoors.org
[p2p-retrofit]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yv8PDUwn9fQ

**3. Lack of skills training**

There are no concrete proposals in the document to improve building skills,
particularly upskilling to meet the demands of more complex retrofit, or for
more stringent enforcement of existing building regulations, both issues that
are already recognised as barriers to market growth (paras. 17, 29, 38, 39). We
believe that the Government’s targets will not be met unless these issues are
seriously addressed. The Government understandably wants energy efficiency to
be achieved at minimum taxpayer cost, but this is in conflict with policies
being “cost effective” and unlocking “the full value of energy efficiency”.
Skills. We believe strongly that apprenticeship schemes should be improved with
reference to those that may work well in other European countries, if
applicable. Community-led apprenticeship schemes could train ‘draught busters’
to provide a low cost service to householders. We are already partnering such
groups in two Bristol wards.

Building regulations. Evidence shows that building standards should be subject
to independent quality control, rather than to self-policing by developers, as
the Government seems to favour, which does not work (see examples below).
Checks should be made without prior notice using TI (the only means of
providing thorough checks) and should be performed on behalf of the purchaser
or lender (not the builder) on new builds and before and after retrofit. This
quality control policing by ‘Green Knights’, who are best seen to be acting on
behalf of the consumer public, should be community or council based and require
adequate, ring-fenced funding, which is lacking at present. Rectification of
building defects should also take place under adequate community-based
supervision and be backed up by legal enforcement. Councils are best-placed to
carry this out but currently lack the funds (see iii below). Lenders could
provide incentive by prohibiting loans without effective independent energy
certification (not EPCs, which, in our view, are without much value as they do
not assess the actual physical condition of the home). There is accumulated
evidence that a combination of suppliers entering the retrofit market with
insufficient skills and voluntary codes of practice, leaving the industry to
police itself, has resulted in the UK having a large number of poor quality
buildings, with consequent less than expected energy savings, from both new
build and retrofit, and lack of customer satisfaction. We can offer many
examples of these barriers reducing effectiveness of outcomes in Bristol:

- **Experience from C.H.E.E.S.E thermal imaging surveys.** Surveys have
frequently identified examples of poor workmanship such as:

	* Faulty PVC double-glazed window installation with draughts round the
outside of the window frame and in the window itself, because of faulty
adjustment of catches, hinges and failure to seal the frame to the brickwork.

  * Gaps in cavity wall insulation.

  * Incomplete and insufficient loft insulation.

  * Lack of insulation on central heating pipes under floors and in garages.

	* Use of “dot and dab” fixture of internal SWI (see our analysis in Qu.1),
promoting damp and mould growth.

	* A survey of a flat in a 2 year-old block on the Whapping Wharf development
found wall insulation to be missing. The development has won awards and
features as having “a high level of finish and specification”. The householder
is now submitting thermal images to the developer in the hope of redress.

	* Together with Brian Harper we have identified a very poor practice, common
to many large- scale house builders, where dot-and-dab plastering has been
adopted as a de-skilling and therefore lower cost method. Carried out
correctly, the plaster-board should be sealed at the top and bottom. In order
to save time, or through ignorance, this is almost never carried out. The
consequence is the construction of thousands of new homes where cold air passes
through roof insulation, or at joist level, into the top of the gap between
wall and plaster-board and cascades down to the skirting board where it
escapes. This can be seen clearly on our thermal images. The occupants are
left, in thermal terms, living in a plaster-board tent. It is very difficult to
rectify, yet could be easily stopped by unannounced quality checking using TI.
We can supply TI images of these faults on request.

- **Serious problems experienced by the Bristol European Green Capital
2015-promoted “Warm-up Bristol” project.** This was launched in October 2015,
to help people insulate their homes through the Green Deal. Because of a clear
lack of skills in solid wall insulation, a very comprehensive and readable
booklet, [A Bristolian’s Guide to Solid Wall Insulation][bristol-SWI], was
published by Bristol City Council in 2016, in collaboration with the
Sustainable Traditional Building Alliance, for use by householders and the
building trade. Despite this and because of the flawed business model governing
the financing of the Green Deal, there existed a ‘cone’ of sub-contractors,
each taking their own profits. Inadequately trained management and construction
staff, poor communication with clients, and workers often being employed on
zero hours contracts and thus having little investment in the quality of their
own work, resulted in retrofit that was sub-standard and a lot of dissatisfied
customers. Bristol City Council then had to rectify the situation as best it
could and refund £3.3 million of unspent funds because of the delays involved.

[bristol-SWI]: https://warmupbristol.co.uk/content/solid-wall-insulation

- **Because of spending cuts councils no longer have the resources to enforce
regulations.** Council officers have told us that planning expertise is being
lost and they no longer have sufficient personnel to police planning
permissions and regulations. This has incentivised builders to flout these
regulations and cut corners.

- **Loopholes in planning regulations that ‘lock in’ building regulations are
exploited by developers to boost profits.** It appears that developers can buy
land, gain planning permission and start a token amount of work, e.g. building
a wall. They can then ‘sit’ on the site for long periods of time, during which
more stringent regulations may have been introduced, but developers are only
legally bound to the standards in force when they completed the token building
work. 5

Although we cannot supply evidence ourselves, we recognise the importance of
learning how other European countries, such as Germany and the Scandinavian
countries, achieve better building standards than in the UK, so that we can
implement appropriate changes based on proven good practice.

<a name="q7"></a>
### Qu.7. Do you think there are any other important lessons to learn from past attempts to stimulate the market?

Inconsistent messages from successive Governments and ‘stop-go’ incentives have
damaged the market for energy efficiency for installers and customers alike,
e.g. the Green Deal. There needs to be a more strategic, consistent, long-term
approach and more careful design of future incentivising programmes.

The consultation documents states that those who derive value from energy
efficiency should be key market players (para 4) and that policies should
exploit “what works”. We have given you examples above of what works. In
addition we offer a proposal to engage finance:

The C.H.E.E.S.E Project is discussing with the Bristol-based Triodos Bank the
way to develop a Community Development Finance Initiative (CDFI) to encourage
energy-saving retrofitting. Triodos Bank already has the precedent of providing
‘green’ energy mortgages in Spain and The Netherlands, where loans with
preferential terms are offered to customers who undertake energy efficiency
improvements. Our aim is to devise a product that would incentivise such
improvements by owner- occupiers at the key trigger points you have identified.
Key questions are:

- What is in it for the lenders?
- Who pays for the incentives?
- Are the benefits to the property and the savings on fuel bills of sufficient
benefit to the lender to offset any reduction in interest?
- What is the pay-back period?
- How is verification achieved and policed?
- How is the cost of each transaction minimised?
- What is the role of the community?

We believe that if BEIS are serious about the imperative to reduce domestic
energy consumption they cannot expect to achieve it by market forces alone. In
Prof. Kevin Anderson’s words climate change mitigation [is a job for the few
not the many][anderson-many]. An obvious tool to employ to this end is
hypothecated taxation, such as modifying stamp duty, a major burden for any
house purchaser.

[anderson-many]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZF1zNpzf8RM

In the meantime BEIS should:

- Support initiatives such as the one between The C.H.E.E.S.E. Project and
Triodos Bank above.

- Fund (at small scale in government terms) non-profit and volunteer community
projects that work bottom-up to incentivise and deliver energy advice, TI
surveying, DIY retrofitting, training apprentices, etc.

- In particular, fund community energy-saving initiatives that are targeted at
owner-occupiers, such as Bristol Green Doors.

- Fund community initiatives aimed at the fuel-poor, but acknowledge that this
is for a social good rather than primarily for carbon savings.

- Remove VAT from retrofitting and energy-saving products. Members of the
project would be happy to enter a dialogue with BEIS on these themes.

<a name="q38"></a>
### Qu.38. Are there other ways that Government could help improve access to data energy efficiency and performance of homes for research purposes?

Members of The C.H.E.E.S.E Project would be happy to enter into a dialogue
about the use of our thermal imaging methodology for research into the thermal
performance of buildings (para. 116), as well as for identifying building
faults.
