
# Rates of pay

Please note these rates are effective from the start of the 2019/20 winter
survey season.

## Qualified ETs and assistants

<div class="alert alert-info">

<h4 class="alert-heading">Please note: volunteer assistants</h4>

<p>This Spring, because we had not received any grants, we had to take a
management decision that we could only afford to use unpaid volunteer
Assistants. The reason for this is that we thought £150 (double last year's
fee) was as much as the market would bear, while the actual cost of a survey to
us is £240 if including overheads - despite all senior management working for
nothing. If we paid assistants we would make a loss on all our survey direct
salary costs - unsustainable. Until we get an additional income stream we
cannot change this decision. An exception to this is when we are paid a
considerably higher survey fee by a client or third party - this has to be in
excess of £240.</p>

</div>

Flat, up to 5 main rooms, expected 2 hours per survey:

 - Qualified ET: £50.00
 - Assistant, if not a volunteer: £28.00

House, up to 5 main rooms, expected 2.5 hours per survey:

 - Qualified ET: £58.75
 - Assistant, if not a volunteer: £31.25

6-8 rooms, expected 2.5 hours per survey:

  - Qualified ET: £67.50
  - Assistant, if not a volunteer: £31.25

8+ rooms, expected 3.5 hours per survey:

  - Qualified surveyor: £76.25
  - Assistant, if not a volunteer: £39.75

Call-out payment:
 
 - Qualified ET: £15
 - Assistant, if not a volunteer: £10

Please note:

 - These rates are based on hourly rates of £8.50 for assistants and £17.50 for
   ETs. If you are unsure about the size of the building you surveyed, you can
   check the details in the [database](/admin).
 - For Assistants, and ETs, payment is made on the basis of a call-out fee and
   an hourly rate.
 - The call out payment and hourly rate for ETs is higher than that of
   assistant's becuase the ET takes responsibility and the leading role in the
   survey.
 - The call-out payment will only be paid if the survey is cancelled, otherwise
   it is paid as part of the fee.
 - For qualified ETs, please note that the payment includes conducting the
   1-month follow-up with the customer.

## Trainee ETs

The training system is that you will (usually on one day) observe one survey
with Brian Harper as a pair, then take it in turns to lead a survey under supervision.
You will then do at least two more surveys under the supervision of an
experienced ET, being paid a flat rate of £20. 
If these are considered to be satisfactory, you will be 'signed
off' and become eligible for the fees above.

At the end of the season, after the tapes of several of your last surveys have
been reviewed by Brian as being satisfactory, you will be awarded a CPD
certificate by Brian’s Energy Tracer CIC.

## Expenses

You can claim for Bristol bus tickets for CHEESE business that you would not
otherwise have had to purchase.

You can claim mileage at 45 pence per mile if it is necessary to use your car
on CHEESE business, such as during surveying to carry surveying equipment.

If you have to get a train for CHEESE surveying business, that you would not
otherwise have to get, you can claim for the cheapest return ticket available
at the time of booking, but please get permission in advance from Maddy
Longhurst or Mike Andrews.

If it is unavoidable, for example if neither Energy Tracer on a survey has
access to a car, then you can claim for car-club car hire costs incurred on
CHEESE business, but the amount must be agreed in advance with Maddy Longhurst
or Mike Andrews.

## Invoicing

Please complete invoices for all pay and expense claims and email copies to
Maddy Longhurst and Mike Andrews.

- Invoice proforma for payment of expenses
  ([Word.docx]({{url_for('.assets', filename='files/CHEESE-invoice-proforma-For-payment-of-expenses.docx')}}),
   [PDF]({{url_for('.assets', filename='files/CHEESE-invoice-proforma-For-payment-of-expenses.pdf')}}))

- Invoice proforma for payment of survey fees
  ([Word.docx]({{url_for('.assets', filename='files/CHEESE-invoice-proforma-For-payment-of-survey-fees.docx')}}),
   [PDF]({{url_for('.assets', filename='files/CHEESE-invoice-proforma-For-payment-of-survey-fees.pdf')}}))
