
## Events in 2017

{% import 'macros.html' as macros %}

### Second Energy Tracer Training weekend, October 2017

Our second Energy Tracer training weekend was held on 21st/22nd October, again
at the [Ambition Lawrence Weston](http://www.ambitionlw.org/) youth centre. The
new Energy Tracer recruits learnt abou the theory of thermal imaging and
building construction on Saturday, and were introduced to the CHEESE thermal
imaging equipment and hands-on experience with some practice surveying on
Sunday. We also held a refresher session for existing Energy Tracers on Sunday
to prepare them for the upcoming survey season.

{{ macros.gallery('2017-10-training') }}

### At Goram Fair, September 2017

We had our gazebo stall at this year's [Goram
Fair](https://www.bristolmuseums.org.uk/blaise-castle-house-museum/whats-on/goram-fair/).
We didn't escape the rain but it didn't seem to put people off from coming.

{{ macros.gallery('2017-09-goram-fair') }}

### At the Westbury Village Show, September 2017

More details [here](http://www.wotvs.co.uk).

### At Bristol Green Capital 10th Anniversary event & Green Mingle

More details
[here](http://bristolgreencapital.org/ten-year-anniversary-bristolsfuture/).

{{ macros.gallery('2017-07-green-capital') }}

### At Redland May Fair, May 2017

This year's [Redland May Fair](http://www.rcas.org.uk/redland-fair) was hugely
successful and attracted large crowds on a beautiful sunny day. We spoke to
lots of people about the warmth of their homes, retrofit and the value of
having a CHEESE thermal imaging survey. That was until the heavens opened and
we all got very wet. Thank you to Bristol Energy Network who kindly lent us
their new gazeebo.

{{ macros.gallery('2017-05-redland-may-fair') }}

### At the Easton Food Assembly, February 2017

Nick and Jamie were at the [Food Assembly
meeting](https://thefoodassembly.com/en/assemblies/7501) in Easton community
centre to spread the word about CHEESE (not to sell any!).

{{ macros.gallery('2017-2-easton-food-assembly') }}

## Events in 2016

### Second Energy Tracer training session, November 2016

We held our second training session on 26th/27th November, which was again
kindly hosted by the [Ambition Lawrence Weston](http://www.ambitionlw.org/)
youth centre. After a productive two days of the theory and practice of
domestic thermal imaginag, five more enthusiastic traineers are well on their
way to becoming fully-fledged Energy Tracers!

{{ macros.gallery('2016-11-training') }}

### Health and Safety for home visits workshop, November 2016

The [Centre for Sustainable Energy](https://www.cse.org.uk/) provided a
training session this weekend for trainee CHEESE Energy Tracers on health and
safety for home visits. This provided a forum to discuss the expectations of
the surveyor and the householder and issues associated with visiting peoples
homes, including the risks. In the pictures below, the instructor Anna Watts
(from CSE) and the CHEESE Energy Tracers, with the visible light and thermal
versions of the picture.

{{ macros.gallery('2016-11-health-safety-workshop') }}

### First Energy Tracer training session, October 2016

We ran a successful first training session for Energy Tracers surveyors on
9th/10th October, held at the [Ambition Lawrence
Weston](http://www.ambitionlw.org/) youth centre. This was a full two days,
which included the theory of thermal imaging and building construction, and
introduction to the CHEESE thermal imaging equipment and hands-on experience
with some practice surveying.

{{ macros.gallery('2016-10-training') }}

### At the Bristol Energy Hub, April 2016

[Bristol Energy](www.bristol-energy.co.uk) kindly invited the CHEESE project to
run a stall on 2nd and 9th April in their new Energy Hub, located on the
Bristol Harbourside. This was a great opportunity to showcase the achievements
and ambitions of CHEESE to members of the public.

{{ macros.gallery('2016-04-energy-hub') }}
