title: Home thermal-imaging surveys

<div class="float-right">
  <a data-lightbox="bay-window" href="{{url_for('.assets', filename='images/thermal13.jpg')}}"
     data-title="Thermal image of a bay window.">
    <img src="{{'images/thermal13.jpg'|thumbnail('250x250')}}">
  </a>
</div>

# Home thermal-imaging surveys

**Our internal thermal-imaging surveys aim to improve the comfort and energy
efficiency of your home, to you save money on your bills and to reduce your
climate impact.**

The survey process is based on a unique methodology developed by Brian Harper,
who has been working with thermal imaging for 45 years and has surveyed over
400 homes. Brian is a [director](/governance#brian-harper) of The CHEESE Project.

<!--The method involves heating the house to 10 degrees above ambient
temperature, reducing the indoor pressure and locating incoming cold draughts,
inadequate insulation, poor construction, etc.

The householder observes the survey and is informed of any energy-loss
problems as they are revealed. The survey is also filmed, capturing the
live thermal images and commentary from the surveyor, to provide to the
householder for future reference.-->

<!--<div class="alert alert-warning">
<strong>Please note: our pricing is under review. See the <a href="#pricing">pricing</a> section for details.</strong>
</div>-->

## How it works

We perform surveys in the winter so that when a house is heated there is a
large difference between the temperature inside the house compared to the
outside.

An Energy Tracer will come at the prearranged time. Firstly, a large extractor
fan is fitted to an external door and run continuously to reduce the pressure
inside the building. This causes cold air to be drawn in though any gaps. As we
work through each room in the house we use the thermal imaging camera to look
for cold spots which point to thermal faults in the fabric of the building.
These may be caused by gaps to the outside through which draughts are pulled by
the fan, or by poor thermal insulation from cold bridging or missing insulation
etc.

As the householder, you are involved directly with the survey by accompanying
the surveyor to see first hand how heat moves around your home and where it is
lost.  The entire survey is recorded as a video with audio of the surveyor's
commentary and any discussions you might have with them. The video is given to
you afterwards on a USB memory stick, so you can review the findings at any
point.

Following the survey, a briefing is carried out on the main problems that were
identified and how they might be remedied, but we cannot offer this as
professional advice. You must always consult an expert to determine the best
way forward. We will record your current energy use by looking at your gas and
electricity bills (you will need to [find them in
advance](/pre-survey-guide#preparation)). 

Because we are continuously developing the CHEESE Project and its approach, we
will ask you to complete a short questionnaire after the survey to obtain
feedback and to learn how effective the survey was for you. We will follow up
again after a month and after a year to see if your energy use has changed!

<a class="anchor" name="pricing"></a>
## Pricing

<!--We are sorry to say that we have not yet secured grant funding for our November
2019/20 season, as we have in previous seasons. So for next season, we are at
present unable to offer free surveys, and will have to increase our prices to
cover our costs. Costs have been subsidised by grants up until now.

The average true cost to us last season of each survey was £236.00. The average
cost of a thermal survey elsewhere is £453, and this is without the benefit of
pressure-reduction the delivery of a video, and the refinements of our
software-created images.

We will shortly present a new pricing structure which will keep surveys as
affordable as possible, whilst covering our own costs.

Our costs cover employment of a survey manager and the time of energy tracers
to carry out the surveys. It also covers the cost of travel, materials and (in
some cases) report writing. All strategic management, software and hardware
development, and website maintenance is carried out for free by a voluntary
board of directors.-->

<!--The overwhelming response that we get is that our surveys are fascinating
and exceptionally good value.-->

<!--
<div class="alert alert-info">
<h4 class="alert-heading">A note on our pricing</h4>

<p> The C.H.E.E.S.E. project is a not-for-profit volunteer-run organisation,
which allows us to provide surveys at very low cost. However, for the coming
2019-2020 season, we regret that we have had to raise our charges for surveys.
This is why:</p>

<p>
<ul>

<li>The project has, in previous years, benefited greatly from grants, but
unfortunately this season we have failed to receive any, despite six
applications up to August 2019.</li>

<li>The full cost of a survey to us in 2018-19 was £236.</li>

<li>The average cost of a thermal survey elsewhere is £453, but without the
benefits of pressure-reduction and our bespoke imaging software which we
believe to be key advantages of C.H.E.E.S.E. surveys.</li>

</ul>

</div>
-->

<div class="alert alert-primary">
Please note: while we are holding our 2019-20 pricing (below) for those who
booked surveys that had to be postponed due to the Covid pandemic, we
anticipate having to raise our prices for the 2021-22 survey season in order to
cover their administration costs. The maximum increase for Bristol will be no
greater than 30%, with the surcharge for Bath remaining at £60 to cover travel
costs. We will post the new prices nearer the start of the survey season (Covid
permitting).
</div>

Below are our prices for various sizes of home. Please note that **main rooms**
means any large room: including living rooms, dining rooms, kitchen-dining
rooms, bedrooms and conservatories, but not bathrooms, separate kitchens,
utility spaces or garages. Two living rooms which have been 'knocked-through'
into one room will be charged as two rooms.

<!--We do offer **free surveys** to households on low incomes. We assess
eligibility for free surveys on a case-by-case basis. It will be useful for us
to know whether you are receiving benefits and whether you meet the [Minimum
Income Standard](http://www.lboro.ac.uk/research/crsp/mis/), which you can find
out using an [online calculator](http://www.minimumincome.org.uk/).-->

Free surveys are available through our Partners
[CHAS](http://www.chasbristol.co.uk/) and
[WHAM](https://www.cse.org.uk/projects/view/1337) for people experiencing poor
housing conditions and those in fuel poverty. Please just get in touch if you
would like to refer yourself or someone else for a free survey.

<table class="table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Building type</th>
      <th>Survey time</th>
      <th>Charge (Bristol)</th>
      <th>Charge (Bath)<sup>&dagger;</sup></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Flat up to 2 bedrooms</td>
      <td>2 hours</td>
      <td>&pound;100</td>
      <td>&pound;160</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>3 to 5 main rooms</td>
      <td>2.5 hours</td>
      <td>&pound;150</td>
      <td>&pound;210</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>6 to 8 main rooms*</td>
      <td>2.5 to 3 hours</td>
      <td>&pound;185</td>
      <td>&pound;245</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Over 8 main rooms*</td>
      <td>Over 3 hours</td>
      <td>&pound;200</td>
      <td>&pound;260</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Commercial surveys for housing associations, councils etc.<br>
        (Additional charge for a written report</td>
      <td>Variable</td>
      <td>&pound;250<br>
	&pound;100</td>
      <td>&pound;310<br>
        &pound;100)</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<sup>&dagger;</sup> Our prices for surveys in Bath include a supplement of £60 to cover travel
costs to and from Bristol.

\* We generally only survey large houses at weekends, though there may be some
limited availability for surveying large houses on other days.

Each year we train new Energy Tracers (ETs) and they learn on the job,
supervised by more experienced ETs in order to gain their certificate. If you
have your survey in November or December it may be a 'training survey'. While
this may take a little longer you will have the benefit of both ETs experience
and their technical and observational skills. We will let you know in advance
if it will be a training survey.

<div class="notice lead">
  <a href="/apply-for-a-survey">Apply for a survey</a> now!
</div>

<a class="anchor" name="cancellation"></a>
## Cancellation policy

If your survey is cancelled less than 72 hours (3 days) prior to your survey
there will be a £100 cancellation fee. If you rebook your survey for a
different date in the same season, £50 of this will be credited against your
new booking. 
