title: Setting up a C.H.E.E.S.E. Project in your area

# Setting up a C.H.E.E.S.E. Project in your area

As people are increasingly aware of the climate crisis and the fact that 30% of
UK energy use is within homes, we are receiving more and more enquiries from
individuals, NGOs, housing associations, councils, etc. about how to set up a
local C.H.E.E.S.E. Project replica. They recognise that an energy trace of
domestic properties, as a part of building appraisal, is the smart, low-cost,
first step to achieve targeted, cost-effective, energy-loss reduction.

We are now delighted to report that we have been awarded (February 2021) a
substantial grant (details are still confidential) over three years to develop a
new franchising company to replicate The C.H.E.E.S.E. Project UK wide. Our
first task is to develop C.H.E.E.S.E to be sustainable without grant income. It
will then become a test-bed franchisee. We will also be seeking pilot
franchisees to develop a successful model which will have a low entry cost and
be sustained by payments of royalties on survey income to the central
franchisor company. We plan low-cost rental of newly developed Heatview camera
and Energy Tracer blower-door equipment, optimally designed for the job, and
plan to grant exclusive local licenses for our system.

We hope, Covid permitting, to trial franchising in Autumn 2021. We will
endeavour to keep start-up costs to the minimum, with free training, but
potential franchisees will have to have considerable scale to cover their costs
and they must be sustainable long-term. It may be to the advantage of small
climate NGOs to form alliances with their neighbours. In the meantime, we
recommend that climate action NGOs wanting to set up a local franchise should
seek opportunities for funding to cover their core costs. Paid-for surveys
provide income, but we will require a proportion of free surveys to be
conducted for free to assist the fuel-poor. We will continue to lobby for
central government funding to assist with these costs. The Lottery Awards for
All is another potential source of funds for community-led groups.

It is important to our social benefit aims that our franchised replicas remain
independent of those carrying out retrofitting businesses, and are engaged with
the local community. They will need to be a registered legal body such as a
co-operative or CIC. Our pricing structure will include payment from sales to
local Energy Tracers.

We will update this page as further detail becomes available. In the meantime
if you want to register your interest please email
[info@cheeseproject.co.uk](mailto:info@cheeseproject.co.uk).
