title: Rates of pay

# Rates of pay

Please note these rates are effective from the start of the 2022/23 winter
survey season.


## Qualified surveyors and assistants

<div class="alert alert-info">

<h4 class="alert-heading">Please note: volunteer assistants</h4>

<p>
The company business plan is now that C.H.E.E.S.E. has to be sustainable
financially without grants. This is in order that it can be an exemplar for the
other franchisees who will replicate our process. This has required an
approximately 30% increase on the 2019/20 survey prices, and means we can also
no longer afford to pay assistants to surveyors. We appreciate that some
surveyors may not wish to work alone. In that case we will endeavour to pair
you with an unpaid volunteer assistant who should share your transport.
</p>

</div>

Rates of pay for qualified surveyors (regardless of whether the survey is paid
for or free to the householder):

<table class="table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>House size</th>
      <th>Duriation of survey (hrs)</th>
      <th>Total time required (hrs)</th>
      <th>Qualified surveyor pay</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>1-2 bedrooms</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>£50.00</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>3 bedrooms</td>
      <td>2.5</td>
      <td>3.5</td>
      <td>£58.75</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>4 bedrooms</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>£67.50</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>8 or more rooms in total</td>
      <td>3.5</td>
      <td>4.5</td>
      <td>£76.25</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>12 or more rooms in total</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>5</td>
      <td>£100.00</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


\* This takes into account the time required to prepare and follow up after survey.

Note if a survey is cancelled or rescheduled less than 72 hours before survey
than surveyor is entitled to cancellation call-out payment of £20. 

Please note:

 - We consider 'a room' to be any room in a house which the client wishes to be
   surveyed [we include unheated cellars].  We generally don't count kitchens
   and bathrooms as a room unless either is especially large (this also applies to
   especially large walk-in wardrobes etc)" We count a kitchen/diner where the
   wall has been knocked through to a living room, as two rooms.
 - These rates are based on hourly rates of £17.50 for surveyors. If you are unsure
   about the size of the building you surveyed, you can check the details in the
  [database](/admin).
 - For qualified surveyors, please note that the payment includes conducting the
   1-month follow-up with the customer.
 - Since we are now operating in Bath and outlying villages in the Bristol
   Postcode area, for any travel beyond 5 miles from the city centre, we will
   now pay for surveyor's travel time. Example, Compton Dando: 10 miles from City centre
   we will pay for the 5 extra miles there and back = 10 miles of travel time at
   £17.50/hour = 29p/minute. Travel times are available on Google maps etc.
 - The survey payment will only be made on the completion of all the following tasks:
    * Full survey with memory-stick and paper report delivered to householder.
    * Upload of survey results.
    * Follow-up phone call after one month to check on the householder’s progress
      if they haven’t already filled it in themselves.

## Trainee surveyors

As part of the training process to be a Heatview Surveyor, individuals will
attend surveys themselves either shadowing a qualified surveyor or conducting
their own survey under supervision of a trainer. During this time, until they
become formally qualified, any surveys they attend we pay a flat fee of £20 per
survey to the trainee. This is to cover any expenses and ensures individuals
isn’t out of pocket by doing training. Once qualified, the individual will be
eligible for rates above.

## Expenses

You can claim mileage at 45 pence per mile if it is necessary to use your car
on CHEESE business, such as during surveying to carry surveying equipment.

You can claim for Bristol bus tickets for CHEESE business that you would not
otherwise have had to purchase.

If you have to get a train for CHEESE surveying business, that you would not
otherwise have to get, you can claim for the cheapest return ticket available
at the time of booking, but please get permission in advance from Nettie Burd
or Mike Andrews.

If it is unavoidable, for example if neither surveyor on a survey has access to
a car, then you can claim for car-club car hire costs incurred on CHEESE
business, but the amount must be agreed in advance with Nettie Burd or Mike
Andrews.

## Invoicing

Please complete invoices for all pay and expense claims and email copies to
Nettie Burd and copied to Mike Andrews.

- Invoice proforma for payment of expenses
  ([Word.docx]({{url_for('.assets', filename='files/CHEESE-invoice-proforma-for-payment-of-expenses.docx')}}),
   [PDF]({{url_for('.assets', filename='files/CHEESE-invoice-proforma-for-payment-of-expenses.pdf')}}))

- Invoice proforma for payment of survey fees
  ([Word.docx]({{url_for('.assets', filename='files/CHEESE-invoice-proforma-for-payment-of-survey-fees.docx')}}),
   [PDF]({{url_for('.assets', filename='files/CHEESE-invoice-proforma-for-payment-of-survey-fees.pdf')}}))
