title: Heatview surveyors

# Heatview surveyors

Licensed Heatview® thermal-imaging surveyors conduct [surveys of domestic
buildings](/home-surveys) to identify areas of poor thermal efficiency. They
also provide the householder with information on how to tackle any of the
issues identified and other general ways of saving energy in their home.

As a Heatview surveyor, you will learn how to operate the CHEESE thermal
imaging equipment, how to interpret thermal images and the basics of building
construction and energy efficiency. As well as this, you will have the
opportunity to meet new and interesting people, to make a significant
contribution to an exciting and important project, to gain expertise that might
help in your career advancement and to earn some extra money.  Since training
and surveys will be done outside of normal working hours, being a surveyor
can be fitted around a full-time job.

## Training

To train to become a Heatview surveyor, you will need to complete our training
course which covers the both theory parts of the role (thermal imaging and
building construction) and practical aspects of using equipment and conducting
surveys.

The training is provided completely free of charge and is a comprehensive
course that can prepare someone for role of heatview surveyor without any
previous experience. The theory side of the course is offered as an online
course and then we consolidate this learning in face-to-face classroom
training. Throughout the course there are trainers on hand to support delegates
where needed. They are usually held in October and November, at the start of
the surveying season.

The course delivers content through a range of methods with tine given for
plenty of discussion and questions. Nick Banks, a participant of a previous
training course, said:

> I just wanted to say thank you for the excellent course you delivered last
> weekend. I thought the whole was delivered at the right pace, with insight,
> gentle humour and plenty of opportunity to harvest contributions from the
> trainees. [...] I look forward to the follow up sessions and, in the meantime,
> I’d like to start proactively raising interest in a thermal survey on my street
> and then the wider area.

Once you have completed training course you will gain experience of
thermal-imaging surveys by assisting a trained Heatview surveyor and shadowing
them as they perform surveys. If you have undertaken the training courses, it
is possible to become a fully-fledged Heatview surveyor in the same season. The
final step to be signed off as a heatview surveryor is to lead survey yourself
so trainers can make sure you are confident and capable of delivering surveys
unaccompanied.

If you were not able to complete the training courses, you can assist with
surveys but will need to wait to complete the next training course to complete
the training. We also welcome anyone who would like to assist with surveys but
do not plan to complete the surveyor training.

## Scheduling of surveys

The surveying season will start in November and surveys can be scheduled during
weekdays and weekends between 9am and 9pm according to the availability of the
customer matching the availability of the surveyors. We can book in two or
three in a day.

## Get in touch

If you are excited by the idea of becoming involved with the CHEESE Project to
train as a Heatview surveyor, then please get in touch by emailing
[info@cheeseproject.co.uk](mailto:info@cheeseproject.co.uk) to introduce
yourself.

Please note that since our surveys involve meeting members of the public and
visiting their homes, we will need you to supply us with a short CV and two
short character references. This is part of our operations policy and we ask
all new surveyors to do so. The references can be from friends or employers but
need to be a written paragraph or two, not just a telephone number.
