
# Customer's survey testimonials

On this page, we've collected some representative feedback from customers who've had
a internal home survey.

## From the 2018/19 surveying season (phase 4)

- *"The CHEESE survey has made us much more aware of the energy we're using.
  The surveyors were fantastic; knowledgeable, thorough, and gave practical and
achievable advice. In fact, a lot of the suggestions made to improve the
efficiency of our home were either very cheap or free. A video is provided to
you of the entire survey which we found useful to refer back to. We were also
provided with various pieces of equipment for a month to help us track and
understand our energy use."*

- *"Thank you for the heat loss survey - it was both interesting and eye
  opening, and the information and experience shared by Richard and Steve was
very helpful. Being in a rental there's a limit to what I can do, so having
some help prioritising was invaluable. I've blocked some of the gaps in the
ceiling and floorboards already. Thanks to Maddy for arranging so quickly and
seamlessly too. The monitors are very useful and I'm mid way through the book
cover to cover having dipped in and out of it after Richard and Steve had left
on Friday. I will complete the survey in the month and will stay in touch to
let you know of the savings and warmth that I achieve in the next  year."*

- *"Richard and Kirk did the survey today. I learnt a lot. Very well worth
  doing even in a 18 year old house!! They showed me all the cold spots and
leaks and some are really important to fix. Draughts behind plasterboard and
inslulation cold spots. Recommended!"*

- *"I would highly recommend having a survey done by The CHEESE Project. It is
  so interesting and incredibly useful if you want to locate all those hidden
draughts, warm up your home and reduce your heating costs. The surveyor was
very friendly and patiently spent hours identifying all the heat loss spots in
our house, and even provided us with a video of the survey, plus a list of easy
remedies for us to carry out. 10/10 from me!"*

- *"Found all useful. Identified exactly where we could make improvements.
  Also surveyors enthusiasm was infectious. Nice to not heat the outside of the
property & hopefully save money on fuel usage. Peace of mind that mum(93) is as
warm as she can be."*

- *"Thanks for a great service. Its an amazing eye-opener. I’m supposed to know
  about this stuff but you have pointed out lots of improvements I can make."*

## From the 2017/18 surveying season (phase 3)

- *"The survey itself was great and the surveyors clearly have a lot of
  knowledge. The fact that the homeowner and tenant go around and look at all
the areas of the home is really valuable in having an understanding of the
recommendations rather than just a written or verbal report."*

- *"I loved the enthusiasm and commitment all the volunteers demonstrated when
  they visited the house. I really appreciate people being willing to do this
in their own time. Found it interesting and educational."*

- *"I think this is a great project and an opportunity for everyone to look at
  the ways to reduce their energy costs.*"

- *"Excellent survey, very nice people, thanks so much."*

- *"The survey was carried out in a very professional manner with everything
  being explained clearly."*

- *"Many thanks, was glad to be a part of this process. Efficient and whole
  project done in good spirit. The survey has made me more aware of drafts and
meant that we used room space more efficiently during colder weather. It was
both reassuring and somewhat alarming to hear that our energy consumption
levels were way below the national average. This project feels like a step in
the right direction to awareness of our natural surroundings/better use of
resources."*

- *"I found the survey helpful and seeing the tablet images helped to follow the
issues the surveyors were talking about."*

- *"The team were very informative and highly skilled."*

- *"It was very interesting to see the presence of draughts that I was not at
  all aware of, and cheering that the draught-proofing solution is relatively
inexpensive and has a large impact."*

- *"I was very happy with every aspect of the survey, especially the
  helpfulness of the people who conducted it."*

- *"Really good value for money for the survey and then left with monitoring
  equipment to make changes in own time."*

- *"Really helpful and imformative. Was very surprised by some of the results."*

- *"The two surveyors did a very thorough and detailed survey of my home, it
  was great to be able to follow them with an iPad to see real time all the
various cold spots, many not where I had imagined, heat loss was not through
the ceiling into the loft but in many other small places that could easily be
fixed."*

- *"An excellent, value for money survey which really helped us to understand
  which bits of our home were leaking energy."*

- *"From the outset everyone involved with the survey was friendly polite and
  helpful. All instructions were clear and easy to follow and the
recommendations were mostly low cost and easy for me to carry out myself. I
very much appreciated the fact that the surveyors did some additional research
re the vent and sent it after the survey was complete. Survey video was
brilliant for pinpointing exactly where I had to refit loft insulation. The
entire process is fascinating and informative and really helps you understand
the true energy efficiency of your home. I would highly recommend this
survey."*

- "*The survey felt rigorous and a robust test of the house's thermal
  performance. The surveyor was professional and knowledgeable.*"

- *"The guys that came round were really friendly and approachable and a
  pleasure to have in my home. I would highly recommend the project."*

- *"The organisation was good, the survey was great with friendly enthusiastic
  surveyors and no problems, and even the box collection has been easy and
enjoyable."*

## From the 2016/17 surveying season (phase 2)

- *"A really valuable service, represented excellent value for money. The friendly,
  very helpful surveyors suggested simple remedies that will make a big, positive
  impact on the warmth of our house. A massive thank you to all involved."*

- *"I just wanted to say how BRILLIANT the Cheese Survey experience was!"*

- *"Jamie and Boycee made a fantastic team - they were polite, great at listening,
  helpful and interesting in a perfect balance."*

- *"I got so much out of it. I have already started sealing gaps and stuffing holes
  under skirting boards - I swear its warmer already! I think it might be a bit
  addictive ....funny there are little holes everywhere I never saw before!
  Please pass on my thanks to them - it was inspiring. I will spread the word."*

- *"It was really excellent and revelatory!"*

- *"The energy tracers were very professional and polite. The memory stick is very
  useful to keep looking back on and checking what happened on the day and being
  able to refer back to as you don't take everything in at the time. The cheese
  box gave me some good information and lots of practical advice in the book."*

- *"Excellent. I am stunned that I had never thought about how big an effect
  draughts could have on heat loss."*

- *"Many more thanks for the visit that you and Salvador made and all advice given.
  I found the survey incredibly informative and your suggestions for simple,
  easily applied improvements were exactly what I wanted and need!"*

- The householder gave the survey *"10/10"* and that if it hadn't been done she
  *"wouldn't know where the money is going"*.

- *"I thought the whole organisation of the survey was well done, and the Energy
  Tracers efficient and friendly. I particularly appreciated the opportunity to
  see what was being discovered on the tablet as it was happening."*

- *"The survey was well worth the money and very interesting. – It was fun!"*

- *"Very good to see heat loss with tenants, which helped raise energy awareness
  with tenants, which was an important aspect for [our Housing Association]."*

- Although the householder was initially sceptical about the value of the survey,
  they commented that it *"added loads - things never seen before and the amount
  of time the surveyors spent meant it represented good value and would recommend
  it to others.*

- *"I'm so happy with what you did, you should do it to everyone, especially when
  people are buying houses"*. The experience of seeing the thermal images was
  *"mind boggling"*, *"it says it all"*, *"it opens your eyes to everything"*. 
  The householder has lived in the house for 15 years but didn't understand/know
  about any of the faults until he had the survey. He has now
  sent the CHEESE survey video to send to the council as evidence of the issues
he has. He said that CHEESE surveys should be extended to survey all houses in Bristol!

- *"Really happy the survey happened. The video is great, with lots of practical/DIY 
  tips rather than just recommendations for contractors to do improvements."*

- *"Great and incredibly cheap."* He thought the survey was *"Phenomenal"*. It was
  recommended to him and he would recommend it to others.

- *"Perfect really. the two guys that came were brilliant and very helpful."*

- *"The most striking aspect of the survey for me was the focus on cold draughts,
  which is probably not what most people first think of, but is also probably
  easiest to do something about."*

- *"I think this is a particularly positive message as the kind of things that
  usually come to mind are big and potentially daunting projects like getting
  double glazing or insulation of some kind."*

- *"Energy Tracers marvellous and professional. Result of survey interesting. lots
  of small niggles to solve."*

- *"Can't thank you enough for your time and efforts. Very friendly, professional
  and courteous tracers. Providing a great service to minimise wasted energy and
  improve home warmth."*

- *"Surveyors were absolutely lovely. Survey was great. Overall really
  grateful and enjoyed the survey"*.

## From the 2015/16 surveying season (phase 1)

- From someone who struggled to heat her home to a comfortable temperature:
  *"A real eye-opener. Excellent! I found I could do everything for
  about £150 and got to work straight away."*

- *"There were still places where draughts were coming in and heat
  leaking out that I would never have thought of."*

- *"We were very pleased with the results of the survey and found the process
  very interesting.  We have found the results of the electricity smart reader
  useful too and I'm much more conscious now about turning off lights, sockets
  etc!"*

- *“Measures [sealing round skirting boards in kitchen and lounge, blocking
  chimney draught, lagging pipes in cellar] have reduced monthly electricity bill
  by £15.”*

- From two people who had already made some insulation improvements: *"Thank
  you very much for laying on Brian, Dave and Matt today. Very instructive, some
  draught proofing and the like to work on but generally very encouraging for
  us."*

