
# Survey information and preparation guide

This page describes what you need to do to prepare for a Cold Homes Energy
Efficiency Survey Experts (CHEESE) survey, what will happen on the day, and how
we will follow up with your progress afterwards.

## Confidentiality

Results of our surveys remain confidential between you and The CHEESE Project,
however, in order for us to be able to collect data city-wide on building
faults and energy saving, etc. we may use anonymised recordings, photos of
structure, and details of the survey for analysis, publicity, fund-raising etc.
purposes.

## Payment

To save administration time for our largely volunteer staff, we do ask that you
pay in advance for your survey. This is priced according to the number of
bedrooms plus living rooms, because this affects the time taken on the survey.
See [our pricing for various sizes of homes](/home-surveys#pricing).

Please make on-line payments to **The CHEESE Project**. Sort code 089299,
account number 65811564 with your name as reference. Cheques should be posted
to: Mike Andrews, General Manager, The CHEESE Project, 28 Seawalls, Seawalls
Road, Sneyd Park, Bristol BS9 1PG.

<a name="preparation"></a>
## Preparation for the survey

In order for us to conduct an efficient and successful survey, we need you to
make some preparations before the survey:

- We recommend that you switch on your heating for a period of 24 hours before
  the survey to thoroughly warm up the fabric of the house (this is to create a
  difference of at least 10 degrees between the house and the ambient external
  temperature). Please make sure that all radiators are turned on; however you
  might want to adjust the heating temperature and/or individual radiators so
  that rooms do not become uncomfortable, particularly at night. Please also
  note, if you feel that you're unable to keep your heating on for this length
  of time, contact us at:
  [surveys@cheeseproject.co.uk](mailto:surveys@cheeseproject.co.uk) so we can
  work out the best approach for you.

- Switch off/stop any wood burners, open fires, Agas/Rayburns, gas fires etc.
  two hours before the survey.  This is important since we will reduce the
  pressure inside the house during the survey, and this might draw exhaust
  gases or smoke into the house.

- For the same reason, block chimneys (with a pillow or cushion in a plastic
  bag, or a chimney balloon) and cover any open fireplaces to prevent soot from
  being drawn into rooms.

- Clear away any items that will make it harder to spot draughts and cold spots
  (e.g. on window sills, furniture in corners), and to make it safe for the
  surveyor to move around easily without tripping etc.

- Ensure there is a space for our thermal-imaging equipment, such as a kitchen
  table or worktop, and a nearby plug socket for charging.

- Two hours before the survey:
    * Switch off the central heating.
    * Open all curtains and blinds.

In order for us to be able to calculate the energy saving you may make after
the survey, please retrieve energy bills (electricity, gas and possibly solid
fuel) for the last three years if they available, or just the last year if not.

We need to know how many [kilowatt hours (kWh) of
energy](https://www.ovoenergy.com/guides/energy-guides/what-is-a-kwh-kw-and-kwh-explained.html)
you use per year, for each type of energy. Please look through your bills and
calculate the total kWh figures to have them ready. USwitch has some [good
information](https://www.uswitch.com/gas-electricity/guides/energy-bills/) on
understanding your energy bills. If you are not sure how to do this, then we
can calculate them after the survey with you.

## During the survey

Please note:

- For a five room house (living and bedrooms) a survey will take approximately
  two hours, including a de-briefing at the end. Larger houses will take
  longer, a flat somewhat less.

- Two Energy Tracer surveyors will arrive. One will be the lead Tracer and they
  will usually accompanied by a trainee Tracer who will be shadowing and aiding
  them.

- A blower door will be fitted to a suitable external door. This is used to
  reduce the pressure inside of the house slightly (to induce draughts) and you
  will not be able to use the door for between 1 and 1.5 hours. In a flat this
  can prevent others getting access.

- We encourage your participation and engagement throughout the survey, since
  it is led by your own knowledge of the building and because it is important
  you see for yourself where heat is being lost.

- As the thermal survey is conducted you will be able to watch the images on a
  tablet computer.

- Children will probably enjoy the survey.

- During the survey a video with sound will be made, recording what is found
  together with interpretation comments by the surveyor and your own comments.
  Still thermal photos are also recorded.

- Following the de-briefing on the findings at the end of the survey you will
  be given a recording of the video and its sound commentary on a memory stick
  (or DVD if requested in advance). This will also contain information from The
  Centre for Sustainable Energy (CSE) on how to deal with energy saving
  opportunities.

- Finally, we will lend an energy-monitoring kit (a [CHEESE Box](/cheese-box)
  to you for two weeks. This includes a meter which we will fit for you to your
  incoming electricity supply. This will be collected two weeks after the
  survey.

<a name="follow-ups"></a>
## Follow ups after the survey

### One month

We will ask you to feedback on the actions you have taken (or plan to take) as
a result of the survey. We would also like to hear any thoughts or comments you
have on the survey and use of the energy-monitoring [CHEESE Box](/cheese-box).

### One year

We will contact you one year after the survey by telephone or email to find out
how you are getting on. We would like to know:

- **Your approximate energy use since the survey**. This is to compare with
  the figures we recorded on the day of the survey. We would like you to
  calculate the total kilowatt hours of electricity and gas you have used that
  year, from your bills, as you did before the survey.

- **What actions over the year you have taken to reduce energy use**.

- We would also like to know how much money you have saved as a consequence
  of saving energy, from your bills.

- Any other comments that you might have.

### Subsequently

We find that following a CHEESE survey, people may continue to take action for
years afterwards, reviewing the video again and again as they gradually deal
with the problems it reveals. We will always be glad to hear of your progress
in retrofitting and energy/money saving.
